At this point, we are painfully aware that HTTP is very easy to read even for humans.
You can almost literally want to request fly
by on a console and still understand what is going on.
So I think we can agree that if someone manages to
somehow eavesdrop on an open HTTP connection,
the eServer can read all the requests and responses,
and extract all the data they need.
But how easy is it to eavesdrop on a connection?
As I mentioned in the introduction,
Wi-Fi makes it much easier as you're
literally broadcasting your connection over radio waves.
So all someone needs to do is listen and with special listening software,
it gets even easier.
Look in the instructor notes for more information about this.
Encrypting the Wi-Fi will help,
but you have no control over the settings of the Wi-Fi at
a cafe and old encryptions are easily breakable.
That's why one feature of HTTPS is encryption.
It will make your browser encrypt requests in a way that
only the server you're connected to can decrypt them.
Neither the store owner nor
the malicious eavesdropper at your local cafe will be able to read your data stream.
But what if you think you're connected to the right server when you're not?
In a man in the middle attack or MITM for short,
the attacker gets between you and the server you're trying to connect to.
When this happens, your browser will make an encrypted connection to their server,
as if of the server you thought you were trying to connect to, like Facebook.
The attacker will decrypt your data,
read all of your private information,
re-encrypt it and forward it to Facebook's server and vice versa.
Neither Facebook nor you would know that they are sitting in the middle.
To remedy this, HTTPS's other feature besides encryption is authentication.
The seller will have to identify itself in a way only the real server could,
so you can be sure that you are talking to the right server.